{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\paperw11906\paperh16838\psz9
{\*\jarte object RichPersist
  Version = 2
  LMarg = 1440
  RMarg = 1440
  TMarg = 1440
  BMarg = 1440
  Equal = True
  Orient = 1
  Size = 9
  Width = 2100
  Height = 2970
  LHdr = '$3B'
  MHdr = '$3B'
  RHdr = '$3B'
  LFtr = '$3B'
  MFtr = '$3B'
  RFtr = '$3B'
  PrtHdr = True
  PrtFtr = True
  HdrMarg = 720
  FtrMarg = 720
  HdrFont.Charset = DEFAULT_CHARSET
  HdrFont.Color = clWindowText
  HdrFont.Height = -11
  HdrFont.Name = 'MS Sans Serif'
  HdrFont.Style = []
  Wrap = 2
  WMark = 'None'
  WColor = 13822463
  Duplex = 2
  SpellDict = 'sscebr2.clx'
end
}\uc1 
\pard\qc\b\f0\fs36\lang2057 PicoGAME Mini\par

\pard\b0\fs22\par
PCB Version 0.0\par
\par
Document Revision 0.0\par
\par
The PicoGame Mini (PGM) is a "cut down" version of the PicoGAME, having a single controller port which is identical to Port A of that system. It doesn't include the communications facilities or the LED indicator and is less versatile in other respects, but is appreciably smaller.\par
\par
Like its predecessor, it supports VGA output and a 5V PS/2 keyboard.  It also uses the PicoMite VGA version of MMBasic, developed by Geoff Graham and Peter Mather.\par
\par
The controller port is connected as follows:\par

\pard\qc\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trqc\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx308\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx1058\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx2926\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4959\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7637 
\pard\intbl\f1\cell\fs24\cell Controller\f0  \f1 mode\cell Paddle\f0  / \f1 Analogue \f0 Joy\f1 stick mode\cell\f0 Switched \f1 Joystick\f0  \f1 mode\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trqc\trrh240\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx308\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx1058\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx2926\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4959\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7637 
\pard\intbl\f0 1\f1\cell\f0 GP0\f1\cell\f0 n.c.\f1\cell\f0 n.c.\f1\cell\f0 Up\f1\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trqc\trrh240\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx308\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx1058\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx2926\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4959\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7637 
\pard\intbl\f0 2\f1\cell\f0 GP1\f1\cell\f0 Data\f1\cell\f0 n.c.\f1\cell\f0 Down\f1\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trqc\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx308\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx1058\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx2926\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4959\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7637 
\pard\intbl\f0 3\f1\cell\f0 GP2\f1\cell\f0 Latch\f1\cell\f0 n.c.\f1\cell\f0 Left\f1\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trqc\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx308\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx1058\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx2926\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4959\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7637 
\pard\intbl\f0 4\f1\cell\f0 GP3\f1\cell\f0 Clock\f1\cell\f0 n.c.\f1\cell\f0 Right\f1\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trqc\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx308\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx1058\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx2926\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4959\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7637 
\pard\intbl\f0 5\f1\cell\f0 GP26\f1\cell\f0 n.c.\f1\cell\f0 Pad B / Pot Y\f1\cell\f0 (See Commodore)\f1\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trqc\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx308\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx1058\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx2926\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4959\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7637 
\pard\intbl\f0 6\f1\cell\f0 GP14\f1\cell\f0 3V3\f1\cell\f0 Fire / Trigger\f1\cell\f0 Fire / Trigger\f1\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trqc\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx308\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx1058\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx2926\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4959\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7637 
\pard\intbl\f0 7\f1\cell\f0 3V3\f1\cell\f0 n.c.\f1\cell\f0 3V3\f1\cell\f0 3V3\f1\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trqc\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx308\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx1058\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx2926\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4959\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7637 
\pard\intbl\f0 8\f1\cell\f0 GND\f1\cell\f0 GND\f1\cell\f0 GND\f1\cell\f0 GND\f1\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trqc\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx308\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx1058\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx2926\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4959\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx7637 
\pard\intbl\f0 9\f1\cell\f0 GP27\f1\cell\f0 n.c.\f1\cell\f0 Pad A / Pot X\f1\cell\f0 See Atart ST & Commodore)\f1\cell\row 
\pard\qc\fs22\par

\pard The 3V3 supplies on Pin 7 are not short-circuit protected\f0  (other than any protection given by the regulator)\f1 .  This allows built-in electronics such as rapid fire circuits to have the best chance of operating.\f0  \f1 The Pin 6 supplies pins are current limited to 22mA each.\f0  as these will be shorted to GND by Fire / Trigger buttons. \f1 All joystick switch inputs are active-low.\par
\par
The Controller use\f0 s\f1  Data, Latch and Clock lines. \f0 It is\f1  similar to those used for the NES/Famicom\f0  types in operation \f1  but ha\f0 s a\f1  DB9\f0 F\f1  plug. They are obtainable from Aliexpress at very reasonable cost. You can also build your own as the components (if you use ordinary buttons) are inexpensive.\f0  There is one CD4021B parallel/serial shift register chip, 8 10k resistors and 8 buttons.\par
\f1\par
Several variations of joysticks can be used:\par
Atari 800/VCS has switches, Pad A and Pad B. There is a single Fire button as above.\par
Atari ST is switched only. It has an additional button on pin 9\par
Commodore Amiga, Vic20, C64 & C128 have switches, Pot X (Button 2) & Pot Y (Button 3). Pin 6 is Button 1.\par
\par
Do not use joysticks intended for the built-in ports on the Sinclair Spectrum +2, +2A or +3. These are wired differently and are incompatible.\par
\f0\page A  small self-contained RTC module can be installed if required. On this system it uses two of the signals (GP15 and GP22) that were previously used for Port B so it does not affect the availability of the analogue inputs on the controller port. Even if you don't want it now it's worth fitting the 5-pin male header for it as you can always plug the RTC in later should you change your mind.\par
\par
The filter used in the audio section was designed by Volhout, and is far better than the usual one. This has a flat response up to about 19kHz, where it starts to descend steeply to filter out most of the high level 44kHz PWM carrier. The resulting audio quality is excellent. R23 and R24 can be increased in value or omitted if the user finds that there is insufficient output (it can drive 32R headphones or a line output at 0.5V RMS).\par
\par
The 2.2mH inductors should be the specified part. It is possible to use others, but you may have to find new capacitor values to tune them correctly and good results cannot be guaranteed. Additionally, some simply will not fit in the available space even if they are of the correct value. There is a little spare space around these components and the tuning capacitors C8 & C9  to allow some experimentation.\par
\par
If you would rather use the original audio filter for some reason then this can also be accommodated:\par
Change R19 and R20 to 1k\par
Link out L1 and L2\par
Omit C8 , C9, C10 and C11\par
Change R21, R22, R23 and R24 to 2K2\par
Optionally, link out C12 and C13 and omit R25 and R26\par
This filter is not recommended if you are going to feed an amplifier and good quality speakers as there is far too much 44kHz content in the signal, which could in some cases damage tweeters. It is useful if you want to use these outputs as analogue PWM outputs instead of audio though.\par
\par
The assembly fits a common, very low cost case 90mm x 70mm x 28mm which is available from several ebay suppliers. These cases very rarely come with screws. You will need self tapping screws  No.4 x 1/4" (2.9mm x 6mm) to fasten the PCB into the case and No.2 x 3/8" (2.2mm x 9.5mm) to hold the case together. Note that the case halves will only fit one way round. Mark them on the inside to make sure that everything will line up.\par
\par
A 1mm diameter hole near the bottom of R26 marks the position of the LED on the PicoMite. If the bare PCB is first fitted into the TOP of the case, with the top side of the PCB against the case, then you can use this hole as a guide to drill the top of the case for the indicator. (The LED will actually end up inside the case, below the hole. There may be some scope for making a short light guide out of fishing line, a tiny nylon screw or something like that.) \par
\par
The PCB is supplied with the front and back case panels attached. It is, of course, necessary to cut these off. I find that the best way is to put a panel part into a vice (I use some pieces of aluminium angle in the jaws to give some protection as you need to grip it quite tightly), with the top of the jaws along the cutting line. Then score several times with a sharp craft knife on both sides, using the top of the jaws as a guide. I then push the pcb over using a piece of wood and it will snap along the scored line. Clean up both edges with a file (Warning! Fibreglass particles are an irritant - at least wear a dust mask!) then do the other side. \par
\page Assembly should be reasonably straightforward with the exception of the surface-mounted micro-SD connector. Even this shouldn't be terribly difficult, but is best done with solder paste, gel flux and a heat gun. If you don't have a heat gun then get one (if you ever unsolder components or use heat shrink tube then you'll wonder why you hadn't got one already) - this is a good excuse and they are remarkably cheap!  Mount this component first as it is difficult to work around and it removes the likelihood of damaging components around it.  I apologise for not using some sort of easily solderable module here, but there simply wasn't enough space. :)  Fit the low level components first as it makes things easier.\par
\par
By default 5V power is supplied via a 3.5mm barrel jack socket and a polarity protection diode. However, a solder-blob link beneath the board can be changed to obtain the 5V supply from the VBUS pin of the PicoMite, allowing power to be obtained solely from the USB connector. Note that this probably won't be possible for mechanical reasons if the unit is housed in the recommended case as the USB connector is against the top of the case. For those who really insist, 3V3EN is linked to GND using another solder-blob link which can be cut to enable the PicoMite's SMPS. Do not do this if U1 is fitted. You will probably introduce noise onto the audio by using the SMPS.\par
\par
The link block \f1 has the middle \f0 two \f1 pins connected to the analogue inputs \f0 GP26 and GP27 \f1 via 10k resistors. It can be used in 3 ways:\par
\par
With no link - the analogue pin is simply connected to the port. An input voltage is provided by a potentiometer between GND and 3V3.\par
With the link set to U the resistor is connected as a pull-up to 3V3. This allows the input to be used for an active-low button input. e.g. for joysticks that have multiple buttons like the Atari ST.\par
With the link set to D the resistor is connected as a pull-down to GND. This is the usual connection when a "Paddle" is used. They have one end connected to 3V3 and the other to the analogue input.\par
\f0\par
\par
The RTC module uses I2C2 and needs to be set up a follows:\par
OPTION SYSTEM I2C GP22, GP15\par
\par
The micro SD card needs to be set up as follows:\par
OPTION SDCARD GP13, GP11, GP12, GP10\par
\par
Audio is initialised as:\par
OPTION AUDIO GP6, GP7\par
\par
See Geoff's excellent PicoMite User Manual for MMBasic for programming details.\par
\par

\pard\qc\page\b Bill Of Materials\par

\pard\b0\par
PCB\par
Case (optional)\par
RTC module (optional)\par
5-way male header for RTC (optional)\par
2off  20x1 female header for PicoMite\par
1off  2x3 male header for link block\par
2off  \f1 0.1" jumper to fit above - Bitsbox CN059\par
\f0  \par
K1\tab 3.5mm barrel jack socket\tab\f1 Mouser 490-PJ-031D, ebay\f0\par
K2\tab PS/2 socket\tab\tab\tab\f1 ebay - HA1607\f0\par
K3\tab VGA socket - 3 row 15-pin\par
\tab\f1 RS 481-443, AMP 1-1734530-1, MULTICOMP SPC15430, Element14 1557991,\par
\f0\tab\f1 Toby Electronics HL15S\f0\par
K4\tab Micro SD card socket\tab\tab molex 104031\par
K5\tab D9M socket\tab\tab\tab\f1  TE Connectivity Amplimite 5747840-6, RS 446-520\f0 9\f1\par
\f0\tab\f1 Toby Electronics \f0  \f1 DMR09P\f0\par
K6\tab 3.5mm audio jack socket\tab RS 705-1490\par
\par
SW1\tab\f1 Right-angle 6mm tactile switch - Bitsbox SW059, RS 234-7918\f0\par
L1, L2\tab 2.2mH axial inductor     EPCOS  B78108S1225J000 also known as  B78108S1225J \par
\tab Farnell 608622,  Mouser 871-B78108S1225J, Digikey495-5559-1-ND \par
\par
U1\tab MCP1700 3.3V voltage regulator\tab\f1 Bitsbox QD314\f0\par
U2\tab Raspberry Pi Pico (with PicoMite VGA firmware and fitted male headers)\par
D1\tab Schottky diode 1N5818 or similar\par
Q1, Q2\tab Small MOSFET - see note on circuit drawing\par
\par
C1\tab\tab\tab 100uF 10V electrolytic capacitor\par
C2, C3, C5,C14, C15\tab 100nF ceramic layer capacitor\par
C4\tab\tab\tab Small electrolytic capacitor 10uF to 100uF 10V. Not critical.\par
C6, C7, C10, C11\tab\f1 47nF 100v polyester film - Bitsbox PY47N\f0\par
C8, C9\tab\tab\tab 5n6 5% capacitor\tab Farnell 1702663  **\par
C12, C13\tab\tab 47uF electrolytic capacitor\par
\par
R1\tab\tab\tab 2R2\par
R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, R7, R8, R9, R13, R14, R25, R26\tab 10k\par
R10\tab\tab\tab 150R\par
R11, R12\tab\tab 4k7\par
R15, R18\tab\tab 270R\par
R16\tab\tab\tab 820R\par
R17\tab\tab\tab 390R\par
R19, R20\tab\tab 180R\par
R21, R22\tab\tab 220R\par
R23, R24\tab\tab 470R\par
\par
\par
** This should really be 6n2, which is not a common value in through-hole types. However there are pads on both sides of the PCB which will accept 0602 surface mount capacitors, either as 1n5 padding for a 4n7 on top, for example, or for 6n2 SMD types. \par
\par
}
 